# Cpp-Projects
About task1.cpp:
Use for this task as many STL functions as possible. Write a program that takes five
arguments n, m, s (unsigned int), p (double) and k (unsigned int). Your program
should first generate a vector V 1 of n elements (as double) that are randomly drawn
from a negative binomial distribution (initialized with the probability of a trial gen-
erating true p and a number of trial successes k and result type int). The random
numbers should be generated with the Mersenne-Twister algorithm by Matsumoto
and Nishimura (2000) using 64-bit integers, with default parameters and a fixed seed
s. Afterwards report on the standard output the mean and sample standard devi-
ation of the generated elements. The output precision of the stream should be set
to 3. Subsequently, scale each element x by computing log 2 (|x| + 1). Then output
up to the 10 largest elements, comma separated on one line. Next, generate a vec-
tor V 2 of m elements (as double) and modify them in the same way as before, but
with a different seed s 2 = s · 2. When repeating the procedure make sure to use
a new distribution object. Output the same statistics as for V 1 . Then, given these
two vectors V 1 and V 2 , perform a two-sample t-test on the scaled and non-scaled
values and output the t-statistic according to the following formula. Output the
total number of degrees of freedom as well. Next, generate a range of sequentially
increasing integers from 1 to n. Shuffle them using random numbers generated by
the same Mersenne-Twister algorithm as previously, initialized with a seed s 3 = s · 7.
Multiply the obtained elements with the unsorted log 2 -scaled values V 1 . Finally,
sort the resulting vector such that the order is as follows: first numbers for which the
nearest integer value is even, sorted in descending order, followed by numbers with
nearest integer being odd in ascending order. Print this vector comma separated on
the standard output. Invalid parameters given to your program should result in an
error message and lead to the termination of the program with exit code 1.

About task2.cpp:
Write a program that takes as first argument a FASTA file, as second argument the
k-mer size and as third argument the skip size n and outputs the number of n-skip-
k-mers found in the sequences on the standard output. A n-skip-k-mer is defined as
a sequence of length k that includes one out of every n+1 bases. The output should
contain the header of the sequence and then the uppercase n-skip-k-mer and its
count (space separated), sorted lexicographically by the n-skip-k-mers. The FASTA
file should only contain DNA sequences. If invalid sequences are found print their
header on the standard error stream. Upper or lowercase DNA count to the same
k-mer. To obtain all points your program should run in less than 2 seconds for k=10,
n=1 and in less than 1 minute for k=33, n=1 on the CIP pool computers with the
provided FASTA. You might want to use different containers for different sizes of k.
For measuring the runtime of your program, don’t forget to redirect the output to a
file (or best /dev/null). Printing the output on the terminal takes some additional
time that we don’t want to measure. You can measure the runtime under Linux via
the following command:
time ./task3 in.fa 10 1 > /dev/null
